# Text to AI Image Generation 🚀



## Project Description

ImaGenAI-DALLE-MERN is an innovative web application that leverages OpenAI's API to transform text prompts into stunning images. Built using the MERN stack, this project showcases a seamless integration of modern web technologies to deliver a user-friendly and interactive experience.

### Key Features:

- **Text-to-Image Generation**: Enter a prompt and witness the magic as DALL·E 2 generates a corresponding image.
- **Modern Design**: Enjoy a sleek, minimalistic interface with dynamic layouts and hover effects.
- **Community Showcase**: Share your creations with the community and explore images generated by others.
- **Surprise Me! Button**: Get creative inspiration with randomized prompts.
- **Image Download**: Save your favorite AI-generated images directly to your device.

### Technologies Used:

- **JavaScript**: Ensures robust and scalable code.
- **React**: Facilitates a dynamic and responsive user interface.
- **Node.js**: Provides a powerful server-side runtime.
- **MongoDB**: Simplifies data modeling and interaction with MongoDB.
- **Tailwind CSS**: Offers utility-first styling for a clean and efficient design.
- **Vite**: Enhances the development experience with fast builds and hot module replacement.
- **OpenAI**: Powers the core image generation functionality.
- **Cloudinary**: Manages and delivers optimized images efficiently.

ImaGenAI-DALLE demonstrates the powerful capabilities of AI in creative applications and serves as a testament to the potential of modern web development.


This description highlights the main features and technologies used in your project, providing a clear and comprehensive overview.

## Technologies Used 🖥️

- [JavaScript]
- [React]
- [Node.js]
- [MongoDB]
- [Tailwind CSS]
- [Vite]
- [OpenAI]
- [Cloudinary]

## Getting Started

Follow these steps to get a local copy up and running:

```bash
# Clone this repository
git clone https://github.com/mota-abiram/SketchMind.git

# Go into the repository
cd ai-image-generator

# Setup default environment variables

# For Linux
cp env.example .env.local
# For Windows
copy env.example .env.local

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start a local dev server
npm start
```

## Setup

1. **Create an ENV File**

   Create a `.env` file in the `server` directory and add your configuration details.

```plaintext
- SketchMind
  - server
    - node_modules
    - public
    - src
    - .env         <-- create it here
    - env.example  <-- this is the base file
    - .gitignore
    - package-lock.json
    - package.json
```

2. **Environment Variables Configuration**

   Add the following environment variables to your `.env` file:

```env
MONGODB_URL="Replace with your url"
OPEN_AI_KEY="Replace with your key"
CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME="Replace with yours"
CLOUDINARY_API_KEY="Your api key"
CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET="Your app secret key"
```

---


